The digitalization of analogue information and processes, and the associated establishment and expansion of an external information technology (IT) infrastructure, has become increas-ingly important in recent years. The increased use of cloud services has reinforced this trend and emphasizes the growing significance of a modern IT infrastructure. Consequently, IT se-curity standards and policies must be implemented to protect confidential (business and cus-tomer) data from both competitors and the public. For Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) in par-ticular, it makes sense to implement measures based on national and international standards in order to recognize and mitigate potential security gaps or risks. Additionally, certifying their own organization can help build customer trust and confidence in the security of the cloud services they provide. Choosing the right certification can often seem difficult, as the many different standards also focus on different areas. 
The aim of this master’s thesis was therefore to generate a catalogue of criteria covering the safety-related topics of the most recognized standards in the industry. For this purpose, four sets of rules were selected from a pre-selection of 13 (inter-)national standards based on de-fined criteria. In the next step, the selection was subjected to a detailed analysis, which forms the basis of the Information Security Catalogue. 
With the Information Security Catalogue developed, a comprehensive set of rules has been de-fined which documents the respective focus of the standards in a single guide. As a result, CSPs will be able to adequately mitigate a variety of potential security risks by implementing IT security standards based on the criteria catalogue. In addition, it will allow providers to for-go a detailed examination of individual standards and instead use the catalogue to enhance their security measures.
